.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-alarm \- monitors a watcher's output channel and runs an external command on  each motion-detection event
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-alarm 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIevent-channel [command [arg ...]]
.SY vt-alarm
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-threshold pixels
.OP \-\-shell 
.OP \-\-url-decode 
.I event-channel [command [arg ...]]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Monitors a watcher's output channel and runs an external command on 
each motion-detection event.
.PP
For example, an "alarm" process can be used to generate an alarm sound 
when motion detection is triggered, by running an external command 
like "aplay".
.PP
If the `--run-as` option is given then the external command runs with
that account's user-id and group-id if possible.
.PP
If you need pipes, backticks, file redirection, etc. in your external 
command then add the "--shell" option. Awkward shell escapes can 
avoided by using "--url-decode".
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-threshold\fR=\fIpixels
alarm threshold in pixels per image
.TP
\fB\-\-shell\fR
use '/bin/sh -c'
.TP
\fB\-\-url-decode\fR
treat the command as url-encoded
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
