.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-channel \- a tool for working with publication channels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-channel 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fI{list|info|purge|delete|peek|read} channel
.SY vt-channel
.OP \-\-all 
.OP \-\-out filename
.OP \-\-quiet 
.I {list|info|purge|delete|peek|read} channel
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
A tool for working with publication channels.
.PP
The following sub-commands are available: "list" lists all local
publication channels; "info" displays diagnostic information for 
the channel; "read" reads one message from the channel; "peek"
reads the last-available message from the channel without
waiting; "purge" clears subscriber slots if subscribers have 
failed without cleaning up; and "delete" deletes the channel,
in case a publisher fails without cleaning up.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
include info for unused slots
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR=\fIfilename
output filename
.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
fewer warnings
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
