.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-fileplayer \- plays back recorded video to a publication channel or into a viewer window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-fileplayer 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdirectory
.SY vt-fileplayer
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-viewer 
.OP \-\-interactive 
.OP \-\-viewer-channel channel
.OP \-\-channel channel
.OP \-\-sleep ms
.OP \-\-skip count
.OP \-\-command-socket path
.OP \-\-root path
.OP \-\-rerootable 
.OP \-\-stopped 
.OP \-\-loop 
.OP \-\-scale divisor
.OP \-\-tz hours
.OP \-\-match-name prefix
.OP \-\-monochrome 
.OP \-\-width pixels
.OP \-\-height pixels
.OP \-\-fade 
.I directory
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Plays back recorded video to a publication channel or into a viewer window.
.PP
The directory specified on the command-line is a base directory where the 
video images can be found. 
.PP
The base directory can also be specified using the `--root` option, in which 
case the directory on the end of the command-line is just the starting point
for the playback. If the `--rerootable` and `--command-socket` options are
used then the root directory can be changed at run-time by sending an
appropriate `move` command.
.PP
In interactive mode (`--interactive`) the ribbon displayed at the bottom of 
the viewer window can be used to move forwards and backwards through the 
day's recording. Click on the ribbon to move within the current day, or click
on the left of the main image to go back to the previous day, or on the right
to go forwards to the next.
.PP
The `--skip` option controls what proportion of images are skipped during
playback (speeding it up), and the `--sleep` option can be used to add a 
delay between each displayed image (slowing it down). A negative skip value
puts the player into reverse.
.PP
A socket interface (`--command-socket`) can be used to allow another program
to control the video playback. Sockets can be local-domain unix sockets or 
UDP sockets; for UDP the socket should be like `udp://<address>:<port>`, eg. 
`udp://0:20001`. 
.PP
Command messages are text datagrams in the form of a command-line, with 
commands including `play`, `move {first|last|next|previous|.|<full-path>}`, 
`ribbon <xpos>` and `stop`. The play command can have options of `--sleep=<ms>`, 
`--skip=<count>`, `--forwards` and `--backwards`. The `move` command can 
have options of `--match-name=<name>` and `--root=<root>`, although
the `--root` option requires `--rerootable` on the program command-line.
Multiple commands in one datagram should be separated by a semi-colon.
.PP
The timezone option (`--tz`) affects the ribbon at the bottom of the display 
window so that that the marks on the ribbon can span a local calendar day 
even with UTC recordings. It also changes the start time for each new day 
when navigating one day at a time. A positive timezone is typically used for
UTC recordings viewed at western longitudes.
.PP
If multiple recorders are using the same file store with different filename
prefixes then the `--match-name` option can be used to disentangle the
different recorder streams. Note that this is not the recommended because 
it does not scale well and it can lead to crazy-slow startup while looking 
for a matching file. The match name can be changed at run-time by using the
`--match-name` option on a `move` command sent to the command socket.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer\fR
run a viewer
.TP
\fB\-\-interactive\fR
respond to viewer mouse events
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer-channel\fR=\fIchannel
override the default viewer channel name
.TP
\fB\-\-channel\fR=\fIchannel
publish the playback video to the named channel
.TP
\fB\-\-sleep\fR=\fIms
inter-frame delay time for slower playback
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\fR=\fIcount
file skip factor for faster playback
.TP
\fB\-\-command-socket\fR=\fIpath
socket for playback commands
.TP
\fB\-\-root\fR=\fIpath
base directory
.TP
\fB\-\-rerootable\fR
allow the root to be changed over the command-socket
.TP
\fB\-\-stopped\fR
begin in the stopped state
.TP
\fB\-\-loop\fR
loop back to the beginning when reaching the end
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR=\fIdivisor
reduce the image size
.TP
\fB\-\-tz\fR=\fIhours
timezone offset for ribbon
.TP
\fB\-\-match-name\fR=\fIprefix
prefix for matching image files
.TP
\fB\-\-monochrome\fR
convert to monochrome
.TP
\fB\-\-width\fR=\fIpixels
output image width
.TP
\fB\-\-height\fR=\fIpixels
output image height
.TP
\fB\-\-fade\fR
fade image transitions
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
