.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-httpclient \- pulls video from a remote http server or network camera and sends it to a  publication channel or a viewer window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-httpclient 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIhttp-url
.SY vt-httpclient
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-viewer 
.OP \-\-scale divisor
.OP \-\-viewer-title title
.OP \-\-watchdog-timeout seconds
.OP \-\-request-timeout ms
.OP \-\-channel channel
.OP \-\-connection-timeout seconds
.OP \-\-retry seconds
.OP \-\-once 
.I http-url
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pulls video from a remote HTTP server or network camera and sends it to a 
publication channel or a viewer window.
.PP
Uses repeated GET requests on a persistent connection, with each GET request
separated by a configurable time delay (`--request-timeout`). A watchdog 
timer tears down the connection if no data is received for some time and 
then the connection is retried. Watchdog timeouts and peer disconnections 
result in connection retries; connection failures will terminate the 
program only if using `--retry=0`.
.PP
The server should normally return a mime type of `image/jpeg`, or 
preferably `multipart/x-mixed-replace` with `image/jpeg` sub-parts.
In the latter case the client only needs to make one GET request and
the server determines the frame rate.
.PP
When getting video from a network camera the exact form of the URL to use 
will depend on the camera, so please refer to its documentation or
search the internet for help.
.PP
To get video from a remote webcam use the `vt-webcamserver` on the remote
maching and use `vt-httpclient` to pull it across the network.
.PP
As a convenience, a URL of `vt://<address>` can be used instead of `http://<address>`
and this is equivalent to `http://<address>/_?streaming=1&type=any`.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer\fR
run a viewer
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR=\fIdivisor
reduce the viewer image size
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer-title\fR=\fItitle
viewer window title
.TP
\fB\-\-watchdog-timeout\fR=\fIseconds
watchdog timeout (default 20s)
.TP
\fB\-\-request-timeout\fR=\fIms
time between http get requests (default 1ms)
.TP
\fB\-\-channel\fR=\fIchannel
publish to the named channel
.TP
\fB\-\-connection-timeout\fR=\fIseconds
connection timeout
.TP
\fB\-\-retry\fR=\fIseconds
retry failed connections or zero to exit (default 1s)
.TP
\fB\-\-once\fR
exit when the first connection closes
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
