.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-maskeditor \- creates and edits a mask file that can be used by the `vt-watcher` program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-maskeditor 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fImask-file
.SY vt-maskeditor
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-image-file path
.OP \-\-image-channel channel
.OP \-\-viewer-channel channel
.I mask-file
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates and edits a mask file that can be used by the `vt-watcher` program.
.PP
The `vt-watcher` program analyses a video stream for moving objects, and it uses
a mask file to tell it what parts of the image to ignore.
.PP
The mask is edited over the top a background image, and that image can come 
from a static image file or from a publication channel (`--image-channel`).
.PP
Click and drag the mouse to create masked areas, and hold the shift key to
revert. The mask file is continuously updated in-place; there is no "save" 
operation.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-image-file\fR=\fIpath
background image file
.TP
\fB\-\-image-channel\fR=\fIchannel
channel for capturing the initial backgound image
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer-channel\fR=\fIchannel
override the default viewer channel name
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
