.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-rtspclient \- issues rtsp commands to control network cameras that send out their video  over rtp with h
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-rtspclient 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIrtsp-url
.SY vt-rtspclient
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-port port-port
.OP \-\-multicast address
.OP \-\-format-file path
.OP \-\-connection-timeout seconds
.OP \-\-retry seconds
.OP \-\-once 
.I rtsp-url
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Issues RTSP commands to control network cameras that send out their video 
over RTP with H.264 encoding (RTP/AVP).
.PP
The RTSP protocol acts as a "remote control" for video devices, so an RTSP
client is used to ask a camera to send its RTP video stream back to a 
particular pair of UDP ports where the RTP server is listening.
.PP
The RTSP client also reports on what video format the camera will send, 
encoded as a "fmtp" string. This information can help the RTP server 
decode the video stream. Use the `--format-file` option to make it
available to the RTP server.
.PP
The RTSP protocol is similar to HTTP, and it uses the same URL syntax, with
`rtsp://` instead of `http://` , eg. `rtsp://example.com/channel/1`. The 
format of right hand side of the URL, following the network address, will 
depend on the camera, so refer to its documentation.
.PP
The camera should send its video stream for as long as the `vt-rtspclient`
program keeps its session open; once it terminates then the video stream from
the camera will stop.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR=\fIport-port
listening port range eg. 8000-8001
.TP
\fB\-\-multicast\fR=\fIaddress
multicast address eg. 224.1.1.1
.TP
\fB\-\-format-file\fR=\fIpath
a file to use for storing the video format string
.TP
\fB\-\-connection-timeout\fR=\fIseconds
connection timeout
.TP
\fB\-\-retry\fR=\fIseconds
retry failed connections or zero to exit (default 1s)
.TP
\fB\-\-once\fR
exit when the first session closes
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
