.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-recorder \- reads a video stream from a publication channel and records it to disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-recorder 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIinput-channel base-dir
.SY vt-recorder
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-scale divisor
.OP \-\-command-socket path
.OP \-\-file-type type
.OP \-\-timeout s
.OP \-\-fast 
.OP \-\-state state
.OP \-\-tz hours
.OP \-\-cache-size files
.OP \-\-name prefix
.OP \-\-retry timeout
.OP \-\-once 
.I input-channel base-dir
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a video stream from a publication channel and records it to disk.
.PP
Individual video frames are stored in a directory tree, organised by date
and time.
.PP
Images are recorded as fast as they are received, or once a second, or not 
at all. These are the fast, slow and stopped states.
.PP
The state can be changed by sending a `fast`, `slow`, or `stopped` command 
over the recorder's command socket (`--command-socket`).
.PP
The fast state is temporary unless the `--timeout` option is set to zero; 
after recording in the fast state for a while the state drops back to the 
previous slow or stopped state. 
.PP
The recorder enters the fast state on startup (`--fast`) or when it gets a 
`fast` command over its command socket, typically sent by the `vt-watcher` 
program. On entering the fast state any in-memory images from the last few
seconds are also committed to disk.
.PP
A sub-directory called `.cache` is used to hold the recent images that have 
not been commited to the main image store. These files are held open, and 
they should not be accessed externally. When the recorder is triggered
by a `fast` command on the command socket the cached files are moved
into the main image store so that they provide a lead-in to the event
that triggered the recording.
.PP
On machines with limited memory the cache size should be tuned so that
there is no disk activity when the recorder is in the "stopped" state.
The cache can be completely disabled by setting the cache size to zero, 
but then there will be no lead-in to recordings triggered by an event.
.PP
Use `--fast --timeout=0 --cache-size=0` for continuous recording of a 
channel.
.PP
The `--tz` option is the number of hours added to UTC when constructing
file system paths under the base directory, so to get local times at western
longitudes the value should be negative (eg. `--tz=-5`). However, if this 
option is used inconsistently then there is a risk of overwriting or 
corrupting old recordings, so it is safer to use UTC recordings and 
add `--tz` adjustments elsewhere.
.PP
Loopback filesystems are one way to put a hard limit on disk usage. On 
Linux do something like this as root 
`dd if=/dev/zero of=/usr/share/recordings.img count=20000`,
`mkfs -t ext2 -F /usr/share/recordings.img`, 
`mkdir /usr/share/recordings`,
`mount -o loop /usr/share/recordings.img /usr/share/recordings`,
add add the mount to `/etc/fstab`.
.PP
Individual video streams should normally be recorded into their own directory
tree, but the `--name` option allows multiple video streams to share the same
root directory by adding a fixed prefix to every image filename. However,
this approach does not scale well on playback, so only use it for a very
small number of video streams.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR=\fIdivisor
reduce the image size
.TP
\fB\-\-command-socket\fR=\fIpath
socket for commands
.TP
\fB\-\-file-type\fR=\fItype
file format: jpg, ppm, or pgm
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fIs
fast-state timeout
.TP
\fB\-\-fast\fR
start in fast state
.TP
\fB\-\-state\fR=\fIstate
state when not fast (slow or stopped, slow by default)
.TP
\fB\-\-tz\fR=\fIhours
timezone offset
.TP
\fB\-\-cache-size\fR=\fIfiles
cache size
.TP
\fB\-\-name\fR=\fIprefix
prefix for all image files (defaults to the channel name)
.TP
\fB\-\-retry\fR=\fItimeout
poll for the input channel to appear
.TP
\fB\-\-once\fR
exit if the input channel disappears
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
