.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-rtpserver \- listens for an incoming rtp video stream and sends it to a local publication  channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-rtpserver 
[\fIoptions\fR] 
.SY vt-rtpserver
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-viewer 
.OP \-\-scale divisor
.OP \-\-monochrome 
.OP \-\-port port
.OP \-\-channel channel
.OP \-\-address ip
.OP \-\-multicast address
.OP \-\-format-file path
.OP \-\-type type
.OP \-\-jpeg-table ff
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Listens for an incoming RTP video stream and sends it to a local publication 
channel. 
.PP
Some network cameras use RTP rather than HTTP because it is more suited to 
high resolution video, especially when using H.264 encoding, and it also 
allows for IP multicasting.
.PP
Only the "H264/90000" and "JPEG/90000" RTP payload types are supported by this
server. 
.PP
The H.264 video format requires plenty of processing power; if the H.264 
decoding is too slow then packets will be missed and the packet stream
will have too many holes to decode anything. The processing load can 
be reduced by handling only RTP packets that match certain criteria by 
using the `--filter` option, or by using `--scale` and `--monochrome`
to reduce the image resolution after decoding.
.PP
Cameras that use RTP will normally be controlled by an RTSP client (such as
`vt-rtspclient`); the RTSP client asks the camera to start sending
its video stream to the address that the RTP server is listening on.
.PP
The camera responds to the RTSP request with a "fmtp" string, which describes
the video format for the H.264 video packets. If this information is not
available from within the RTP packet stream itself then it can be passed 
to the rtpserver using the `--format-file` option.
.PP
The RTCP protocol is not currently used so the rtpserver only opens one
UDP port for listening, not two. Also be aware that if two rtpservers
are listening on the same UDP port then they will steal packets from
one another and it is likely that both will stop working.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-viewer\fR
run a viewer
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR=\fIdivisor
reduce the image size (or 'auto')
.TP
\fB\-\-monochrome\fR
convert to monochrome
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR=\fIport
listening port
.TP
\fB\-\-channel\fR=\fIchannel
publish to the named channel
.TP
\fB\-\-address\fR=\fIip
listening address
.TP
\fB\-\-multicast\fR=\fIaddress
multicast group address
.TP
\fB\-\-format-file\fR=\fIpath
file to read for the H264 format parameters
.TP
\fB\-\-type\fR=\fItype
process packets of one rtp payload type (eg. 26 or 96)
.TP
\fB\-\-jpeg-table\fR=\fIff
tweak for jpeg quantisation tables (0,1 or 2)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
