.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-socket \- sends a command string to a local-domain or udp socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-socket 
\fIsocket command-word [command-word ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sends a command string to a local-domain or UDP socket. 
.PP
This can be used with the `vt-fileplayer` and `vt-recorder` programs when using 
their `--command-socket` option.
.PP
The socket is a local-domain socket by default, but a UDP network socket 
if the socket name looks like a transport address or if it starts 
with `udp://`.
.PP
The standard "netcat" utility (`nc`) can also be used to send messages to
UDP and local-domain sockets.
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
