.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-viewer \- reads images from a publication channel and displays them in a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-viewer 
[\fIoptions\fR] \fI{ channel | shmem-fd pipe-fd }
.SY vt-viewer
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-channel channel
.OP \-\-scale divisor
.OP \-\-static 
.OP \-\-mask file
.OP \-\-title title
.OP \-\-quit 
.I { channel | shmem-fd pipe-fd }
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads images from a publication channel and displays them in a window. 
.PP
The viewer is also used when a parent process such as a the `vt-fileplayer`
needs a display window, and in that case the video is sent over a
private pipe rather than a publication channel and the two file descriptors
are passed on the command-line.
.PP
If there is no windowing system then the video images are displayed in the 
terminal using text characters for pixels. It looks better if you stand
back and squint.
.PP
Mouse events can be sent to a publication channel by using the `--channel` 
option. The `vt-maskeditor` and `vt-fileplayer` programs use this feature, and 
they have a `--viewer-channel` option to override the name of the publication 
channel used for these mouse events.
.PP
A pbm-format mask file can be used to dim fixed regions of the image.
The mask is stretched as necessary to fit the image.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-channel\fR=\fIchannel
publish interaction events to the named channel
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR=\fIdivisor
reduce the image size
.TP
\fB\-\-static\fR
view only the first image
.TP
\fB\-\-mask\fR=\fIfile
use a mask file
.TP
\fB\-\-title\fR=\fItitle
sets the window title
.TP
\fB\-\-quit\fR
quit on q keypress
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
