.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Graeme Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" Copyright Graeme Walker 2017
.TH videotools 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vt-webcamserver \- serves up video images from a local webcam or video capture device over http
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt-webcamserver 
[\fIoptions\fR] 
.SY vt-webcamserver
.OP \-\-verbose 
.OP \-\-port port
.OP \-\-caption 
.OP \-\-caption-text text
.OP \-\-timeout seconds
.OP \-\-data-timeout seconds
.OP \-\-repeat-timeout ms
.OP \-\-address ip
.OP \-\-tz hours
.OP \-\-device device
.OP \-\-refresh seconds
.OP \-\-retry timeout
.OP \-\-once 
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Serves up video images from a local webcam or video capture device over HTTP.
.PP
The HTTP client can either request individual images ("client-pull") or
receive a continuous JPEG video stream delivered as a 
`multipart/x-mixed-replace` content type ("server-push"). Refer to the
`vt-httpserver` program for more information.
.PP
This program is useful for running on satellite machines in the local network 
that have webcams attached; a central monitoring machine can run `vt-httpclient`
to pull the video stream across the network and onto a local publication 
channel. 
.PP
Use `--device=test` or `--device=demo` for testing without an attached 
camera, or on linux use the "vivi" kernel module (`sudo modprobe vivi`).
Device-specific configuration options can be added after the device
name, using a semi-colon separator.
.PP
The server will normally poll for the webcam device to come on-line, although
`--retry=0` can be used to disable this behaviour. When the device goes 
off-line again the program will go back to polling, or it will terminate if the
`--once` option is used.
.PP
The `--tz` option can be used with `--caption` to adjust the timezone for the
caption timestamp. It is typically a negative number for western longitudes 
in order to show local time.
.PP
.PP
The following command-line options can be used:
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose logging
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR=\fIport
listening port
.TP
\fB\-\-caption\fR
add a timestamp caption
.TP
\fB\-\-caption-text\fR=\fItext
defines the caption text in ascii, with %t for a timestamp
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fIseconds
network idle timeout (default 60s)
.TP
\fB\-\-data-timeout\fR=\fIseconds
initial image timeout (default 3s)
.TP
\fB\-\-repeat-timeout\fR=\fIms
image repeat timeout (default 1000ms)
.TP
\fB\-\-address\fR=\fIip
listening address
.TP
\fB\-\-tz\fR=\fIhours
timezone offset for the caption
.TP
\fB\-\-device\fR=\fIdevice
webcam video device (eg. /dev/video0)
.TP
\fB\-\-refresh\fR=\fIseconds
add a refresh header to http responses by default
.TP
\fB\-\-retry\fR=\fItimeout
poll for the webcam device to appear (default 1s)
.TP
\fB\-\-once\fR
exit if the webcam device disappears
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Graeme Walker 2017 <graemewalker@sf.net>
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
